hi this is presto Walker in this video
I'm going to teach you a math trick of
how to divide numbers by connecting the
dots let's say you want to divide a
hundred and thirty three thousand three
hundred and forty two by a hundred and
twenty one while this looks like a
challenging problem it will be a cinch
if you divide by connecting the dots to
start out we're going to draw dots for
each digit of the number that we want to
divide by starting with the digit 1
we're going to draw one dot for the next
digit three we're going to draw three
dots we're going to continue drawing
dots corresponding to each digit of the
number that we want to divide by once we
drawn all the dots we're ready to
connect the dots the number we're
dividing by is 121 so that means we want
to connect one dot two two dots to one
more dot starting from the far left
let's connect one dot two two dots to
one more dot we'll continue doing this
for the remaining dots connecting one
dot two two dots to one more dot and
we'll continue doing this we'll continue
connecting one dot two two dots to one
more dot until all the dots are filled
in now we can count out the number of
completed figures we have to get to our
answer so starting with the column on
the far left there's one completed
figure that starts in this column so we
write a 1 moving one column over the
first two dots correspond to a figure
that's already started it's only the
third dot that counts for a new figure
so we want it so in this column we also
have one figure that starts out in this
column going to the third column all of
the dots correspond to figures that have
already started so there are no figures
that if
started in this column and finally in
the fourth column we can see the first
two dots correspond to figures that
start in that column so that's a two we
can now take these numbers to get to our
answer which is 1102 and you can check
that's the correct answer
this is an interesting method and what's
even more interesting is we can use it
for algebraic expressions so let's say
you want to divide 2x squared plus 3x
plus 1 by the quantity X plus 1 we're
going to start out by drawing dots
corresponding to the number we want to
divide by so for 2x squared we draw two
dots for 3x we draw three dots and for
one we draw one dot for the number we
want to divide by X plus one we need to
connect 1.2 one other dot so we'll start
out with the dots in the figure will
connect one dot to another dot we can do
that one more time and for the remaining
dots we can draw one more line now we
can get to our answer by counting the
number of figures that start in each
column for the column on the far left
there are two figures that start in that
column moving one spot over there's one
figure that starts in that column so
that gets us to our answer of 2 X plus 1
I hope you liked this video please
subscribe to my channel you can catch me
on my blog mind your decisions or on
Twitter at pressure Walker and also if
you liked this video I think you'll
really like my video about how to
multiply numbers by drawing lines you
should watch that video and you can also
check out the book that's on amazon.com